---
layout: post
title: Too Many Thoughts
---

Many times I have way too much going on in my head at once. Just too many thoughts. It gets overwhelming at times, which can cause me to go into “emotional breakdown mode”. The funny thing is that I've only noticed this phenomenon recently.

But now that I do think about it, it's been pretty consistent my entire life. I used to contribute it to just being a worry-wart (which I still am) but I think it's more than that now. I just think too much. But how does one begin to control one's own mind? To make it stop thinking? Thinking about stopping thinking is also thinking, which doesn't solve the problem at all. It merely compounds it.

Too many thoughts, all the time. It's why I can't fall asleep very easily. I get quite jealous of my roommate, who can merely close her eyes and two minutes later be fast asleep. I, on the other hand, close my eyes and my mind wanders. It races and runs around like an excited puppy with ADD. Stopping to sniff this particular bit of information, then romps over to play with this idea, then rolls around in self examination. A rather disobediant puppy, my mind is. It makes it very hard to relax, let alone sleep, with constant worries and thoughts.

How to tame this beast? Hopefully just by letting it spew everything outside of itself. To let everything go, to flow through my hands and out into the world. Perhaps just writing it all down will calm it down and give me some peace. Or perhaps this whole endeavor could backfire in my face, and I'll have even more to think and worry about. It's a gamble at this point.

I guess that's why I started this whole blog thing. To give me an outlet. A place to put my thoughts, where they are safe to just exist. I don't care if they're examined, challenged, commented on, or judged. Or if they're just left alone there to rot. I just want them out of my head. I want some peace and quiet.