---
layout: post
title: Evolution - A fact
---

Evolution - A Fact
I am rendered almost speechless. Really. I don't know what to say about this, or where to even begin. I don't know what happened, but all of a sudden I am seeing example after example of rampant anti-intellectualism. (Though I have a sneaking suspicion it was after I started reading r/atheism.) It just baffles me at how much misinformation is spread about this country, and how many misunderstandings there are.

Evolution. It's a fact. It's not debatable, there is mountains and mountains of evidence for it. You can't deny that it's true, just because you believe something else. You can't “believe” evolution is true, it just is. And don't even try to counter with “evolution is just a theory”. The theory of evolution is just as much a fact as the theory of gravity. If you try to use this argument, you're falling into a rather basic logical fallacy; “theory” in the scientific sense is not the same as “theory” in most modern English. Theory, in most everyday terms, is defined as something similar to a hunch, or an inkling, something that you can believe to be true, even though it may not. For example, I may have a theory as to why my girlfriend was late in coming home; that she is lying to me about where she was, and was really off pursuing another relationship. But in reality, it could be something quite different, like the buses were running late, or she got held up at work. But theory in the scientific sense is completely opposite to the everyday meaning of theory. A scientific theory started out as a hypothesis, which, through intense scrutiny and much gathering of evidence, and thorough criticism and revision, is put to the test until it becomes accepted as the best way of explaining observable phenomena in our universe. And that is how evolution became a theory.

Also, please stop confusing “evolution” and the “big bang”. They're entirely different, and don't even relate to each other. One explains observable small changes in living beings, while the other tries to explain how our universe came into exist. Completely different.

And if you want to refute evolution, and “debate” it, please at least get a basic understanding of what evolution is first? Evolution is the fact that over time, small changes (“mutations”) within species add up, making more specialized species that are better adapted to their environment. If you say this isn't observable; there are actually many examples in our everyday life. Take a look at your common household dog, for example. There are thousands of breeds, and each look entirely different on the outside, but they're incredibly similar on the genetic level. And if you compare them to wolves, again, you see a striking similarity. Dogs are a result of humans having a hand in shaping evolution to suit their own needs, different breeds specialize in different things, such as retrieving, or hunting, or just being pretty lap dogs. Evolution is those small changes.

One big misconception that really is quite frustrating is when people don't understand that evolution is those small steps of each species specializing more and more to fit their environment and needs; it is NOT species becoming a different species. A dog evolving into a frog is ridiculous. As is a chimpanzee evolving into a human. When scientists say we evolved from apes, they mean we have a common ancestor, NOT that the chimp in your local zoo will one day become human.

Also, what is the big obsession with people trying to say we evolved from rocks? That a rock can become something else? No, a rock is a rock. It will never evolve, or grow. It may change form, but in of itself, it cannot adapt to its environment. Evolution only applies to living things.

I am tired, so I will end this rant with one thing; to those Creationists out there, or to Christians who think Evolution is incompatible with religion and the Bible; even the Catholic Church accepts evolution as fact. There are ways of reconciling the two (even though I myself think the idea silly). I don't care what you believe, you're free to believe what you wish, but please, evolution is not a threat to society, or even to religion. Look at the evidence, and come to your own conclusions if you wish, but rationally evolution is quite reasonable. So please, before you decide you are against something, learn about it first?